[#170894236] Add ADR 451 (#332)
alphagov/paas-team-manual: source/architecture_decision_records/ADR451-bosh-access-changes.html.md

# BOSH access changes

## Context

We have the requirement to no longer use shared credentials anywhere within the platform in order to satisfy PCI requirements. The only place where we are left doing this is on the BOSH director.

> In order to migrate away from the useage of shared credential and to using Single Sign On (SSO) we need to expose some of the API's on the BOSH director to the internet in order for the SSO journey to complete.

Reviewer: A suggested rewording of the context section to use an more active voice and add a reference link to the PCI requirements

```
Currently we share credentials to access the BOSH director.

To comply with [PCI Requirements](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/pci_security/maintaining_payment_security) we will remove the use of shared credentials anywhere in the platform.

We will use Single Sign On (SSO) to avoid credential sharing.

To enable SSO we will expose some of the BOSH director API’s  to the internet.
``

> In order to migrate away from the useage of shared credential and to using Single Sign On (SSO) we need to expose some of the API's on the BOSH director to the internet in order for the SSO journey to complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to migrate away from the useage of shared credential and to using Single Sign On (SSO) we need to expose some of the API's on the BOSH instance without a SOCKS5 proxy in order for the SSO journey to complete.
```

s/bosh directory/bosh instance ; director is a job on the bosh instance

Also I would like to avoid using the term _to the internet_ because the intent is ambgiuous

Discussion has taken place with both IA and with Cyber on the proposed methods after reviewing the [RFC created as part of #169915408](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XZsrNp88tOSyC_bjy1mg3Yyv2TkpKgYSjoYResGAbps/edit#heading=h.xscqoqxlc072)

## Decision

We will remove the reliance on IP Whitelisting and the use of shared credentials.

> These will be replaced with Mutual TLS and with Single Sign On

Reviewer 2: I think we could split this into two ADRs, as we have not bottomed out the discussion of the security ramifications of using mTLS to replace managed IP safelists

We will take a multiple implementation step approach in order to build confidence in how this works and to retain the security of the platform.

> ## Initial implementation

Reviewer 2: As above, I think this should be two separate ADRs, the mTLS ADR referencing the former "expose UAA ADR"

To enable SSO we will expose some of the BOSH director API’s  to the internet.

Discussion has taken place with both IA and with Cyber on the proposed methods after reviewing the [RFC created as part of #169915408](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XZsrNp88tOSyC_bjy1mg3Yyv2TkpKgYSjoYResGAbps/edit#heading=h.xscqoqxlc072)

## Decision

We will remove the reliance on IP Whitelisting and the use of shared credentials.

These will be replaced with Mutual TLS and with Single Sign On

We will take a multiple implementation step approach. This is due to needing to quickly solve the issue of shared credentials being in use. It will take us longer to find the mTLS approach that is appropriate for us.

## Initial implementation

In the initial implementation we will place UAA on the bosh director in the internet using the IP Whitelist and using Google for SSO

Access to both BOSH and Credhub will remain via SSH Tunnels during this phase of implementation.

This architecture is temporary and will be revised in the second implementation step.

![architecture](../images/adr451-bosh-access-changes-step1.svg)

## Follow up implementation

> Mutual TLS will be implemented on the BOSH Director in order to gain access to the APIs contained.

Reviewer 3: Another argument for pulling this into a separate ADR I think, but it would be nice to go into a bit more detail about how this will be achieved.
